docs/phase0-structures.md, before:


# LDE Design Phase 0: Structures

All the later phases will actually implement stuff that we could use to
make real documents and libraries.  This one doesn't, so it's called
Phase 0.

In this phase, we just design the generic Structure class on which everything else will depend, and the infrastructure of the LDE itself.

At the end of this phase, we could write unit tests of the whole Structure class and its LDE context, thus guaranteeing that all later phases rest on a good foundation.

## The Structure module

That module defines a single `Structure` class, whose instances have these
methods.

### Computed attributes

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * `S.setComputedAttribute(key,value)` caches a computed value under a
   certain key
    * One important example of a computed attribute:
    * `S.setComputedAttribute("feedback",obj)` tells the UI the type of
      feedback it should show for structure S, with obj having these keys:
        * result: a string, either "valid" or "invalid" or "indeterminate"
        * message: a string, the message should be shown on hover of the
          feedback indicator
        * section: (optional) which character (or range of characters) are
          the specific ones on which the feedback focuses.
            * For instance, if something doesn't parse, you might want to
              point out where it failed.
            * Or if an expression parses into many steps of work, each of
              which gets validated separately, then the feedback needs to
              be localized.
 * `S.getComputedAttribute(key)` fetches the computed attribute value, or
   returns undefined if it's not stored
 * `S.clearComputedAttributes(key1,key2,...)` removes the computed values;
   calling it with no arguments removes all computed values
 * `S.compute(key1,key2,...)` runs whatever function is necessary to
   compute and store the attributes for the keys.
    * It should usually be obvious what this is from context, like if S has
      a function `S.meaning()` and we say `S.compute("meaning")` that means
      run `S.setComputedAttribute("meaning",S.meaning())`.
    * In fact, the base implementation in the structure class does exactly
      what is described in the previous bullet point; `S.compute(k)` runs
      `S[k]()` and stores the result.  To pass parameters, instead of a
      string key, pass an array `[key,arg1,arg2,...]`.
    * But more complex examples are possible, and each structure type is in
      charge of implementing `compute()` in the appropriate way.

### External attributes

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

Just as computed attributes are a key-value dictionary, so are external
attributes.  However, we keep them separate because computed attributes are
those created by the LDE itself, internally, as the result fo some
computation on the structure, but external attributes are provided by the
client of this module, and are not altered by the LDE.

Thus we have the same three functions for manipulating the key-value
dictionary (get/set/clear) but no corresponding `compute` function.

 * `S.setExternalAttribute(key,value)` stores a value under a given key.
 * `S.getExternalAttribute(key)` fetches the attribute value, or returns
   undefined if it's not stored.
 * `S.clearExternalAttributes(key1,key2,...)` removes the stored values;
   calling it with no arguments removes all stored values.

### Manipulating the structure hierarchy

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * `new Structure(arg1,arg2,...)` creates a structure with the given list of
   child structures.
 * `S.children()` yields an ordered array of structures immediately
   inside S
 * `S.parent()` yields the parent structure of S, or undefined if S is
   the LDE Document root
 * `S.indexInParent()` gives the index of S in its parent's children array.
 * `S.insertChild(child,index)` inserts a new child at the given index,
   removing it from its old parent, if there was one.
 * `S.removeChild(index)` does the reverse.
 * `S.removeFromParent()` calls `P.removeChild(index)` in the parent of S,
   passing `S.indexInParent()`.
 * `S.replaceWith(other)` replaces S, where it sits in the hierarchy, with
   a different structure, thus leaving S with no parent.

### Event handling in the structure hierarchy

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

Each of the following functions will be called by the functions above, when
the event is complete.  There is no default implementation of each of these
functions, which means that no call will take place.  However, any instance
or subclass may choose to implement one or more of these functions as event
handlers, and thus hear about the events they signal.

 * `S.wasInserted()` will be called in any structure inserted into any
   parent structure, including just-constructed structures being inserted
   into a parent for the first time.  It is called after the insertion, so
   `S.parent()` will yield a valid `Structure` instance.
 * `S.wasRemoved(parent,index)` will be called immediately after S is
   removed from its previous parent (but obviously S has not yet been
   deleted from JavaScript memory).  The first parameter will be the former
   parent structure (which will still exist, because the removal juts
   happened) and the index that S formerly had within that parent.  Note
   that replacing one structure with another will yield a call to
   `S.wasRemoved()` in the one structure and `S.wasInserted()` in the other.
 * `S.wasChanged()` is a function that the UI will call in a structure if
   one of the structure's computd or external attributes changed.

### Unique IDs

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * The Structure class establishes a global mapping from unique Structure
   IDs to the instances that have those IDs.
 * Clients can assign or release IDs for structures using the instance
   methods `getID()` and `releaseID()`.
 * Clients can look up structures from IDs using
   `Structure.instanceWithId(id)`.

### Connections

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * Structures support two special external attribute keys, "connectionsOut"
   and "connectionsIn," each a multiset of targetID-connectionType pairs.
   Example such multiset (this particular one with no repeated entries):
   `[ [3,'reason'], [12,'premise'] ]`
 * We will want to keep these consistent across a given structure hierarchy.
   Consequently, we do two things.
    * We provide the function `S.fillOutConnections()` that can be called
      with `S` equal to the hierarchy's root, and it will ensure that a
      connection stored in the "connectionsOut" array of any node in the
      hierarchy is also stored in the "connectionsIn" array of its target,
      and vice versa.
    * We provide a convenience function for creating connections,
      `S.connectTo(T,type)`, that creates the connection by adding it to
      both the "out" list for `S` and the "in" list for `T`.
    * We provide a convenience function for deleting connections,
      `S.disconnectFrom(T,type)` that deletes the connection from both
      lists.
 * We also provide the following convenience functions that assume that the
   hierarchy's in and out connection lists are the same.  That assumption
   will be satisfied if no method of editing connection lists was ever used
   other than the convenience functions given above, or if such a method
   were used, then `fillOutConnections()` has been called on the hierarchy
   root since that time.
    * Get all connections of some type to/from `S` with
      `S.getConnectionsOut(type)` (or `In`).
    * Get all connections to/from `S` by omitting the type from the call in
      the previous bullet point.
    * Get all connections from `S` to `T` with `S.getConnectionsTo(T)`.
 * `S.properties()` looks at the set of other structures that connect to S
   via arrows, and forms a dictionary of name=value pairs, the "properties"
   of `S`.

### Convenience constructions for unit testing

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * Create `S.attr(obj)` that will add as external attributes all key-value
   pairs in `obj`, returning `S` for use in hierarchy-building.
 * Append to the constructor code that traverses the tree and attempts to
   make connectionsOut attributes consistent with connectionsIn attributes,
   in a full tree traversal.
 * Enhance that tree traversal so that it finds attributes with common
   connection-type keys ("reason for", "premise for", etc.) and converts
   them into connectionsOut members before doing the consistency checking.
   E.g., `S.attr({"reason for":3})`.
 * Enhance that further so that the value associated with such a key can be
   a string from among a small set of relative references, such as
   "previous" and "next."  E.g., `S.attr({"reason for":"previous"})`.

### Accessibility

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * `S.isAccessibleTo(T)` returns true or false, implementing the
   accessibility relation defined earlier.
 * `S.findCited(n)` finds the first structure `T` accessible to `S` with
   name `n` in `T.attributes()`, or undefined if there is no such structure
   `T`.
 * `S.whatCitesMe()` finds all structures `T` in the scope of `S` with any
   citation-based key (such as "reason" or "premise") in `T.properties()`
   begin associated to the value `S.properties().name`.
 * There may be a need later to create other accessibility-related
   routines, such as `S.allAccessibleToMe()` or `S.myScope()` or
   `S.allAccessibleSatisfying(P)` etc.

### Miscellany

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * `S.text()` returns the contents of `S` as plain text.  The default
   implementation of this, for the base `Structure` class, is the empty
   string.  Subclasses may override this, but there is a guaranteed
   implementation in all `Structure`s that yields a string.

## LDE Module

### Global functions and data

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * Defines global functions for serializing and dezerializing Structure
   instances (or subclass instances) to/from JSON data.  The important half
   of this pair is deserialization, but to help with testing, it makes sense
   to also create a corresponding serializer.
 * Create a global Structure that is the LDE Document.  It will be a
   generic Structure, not a subclass.  It will have no children; they
   can be added later.  That is, it starts as a one-node tree, root only.

### Foreground/background

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

If the LDE detects that it is being run in a background thread, it will set
up listeners for messages from the parent thread.  These listeners will
handle messages of three types:

 * Insert a new subtree.
    * The message must include the unique ID of the parent, the index at
      which the subtree will be inserted, and all the data defining the
      subtree (serialized in JSON form, as required for transmission to
      JavaScript background threads).
    * If the Structure (once it's deserialized) doesn't have an ID, give it
      a new, unique one as determined by the global mapping, and insert the
      new (id,instance) pair into that mapping
 * Delete an existing subtree.  The message must include the unique ID of
   the tree to delete.  Remove it from the global ID mapping as well and
   erase its ID attribute.
 * Replace a subtree with a new one.  The message must include the unique
   ID of the tree to replace and the data defining the replacement
   (serialized as just described).  Remove the replaced one from the global
   ID mapping as well and erase its ID attribute.

Even if it is not being run in a background thread (but perhaps was loaded
as a module in some command-line app, for instance) it will still expose
insert, delete, and replace functions as part of the module's API, each of
which operate on the global LDE document.

We will call any kind of insertion, removal, or replacement of subtrees of
the LDE Document a change event, whether it happened via a message from a
parent thread or as a function call to the LDE as a module in a larger app.

Commit message:

Almost done with Structure connections

docs/phase0-structures.md, after:


# LDE Design Phase 0: Structures

All the later phases will actually implement stuff that we could use to
make real documents and libraries.  This one doesn't, so it's called
Phase 0.

In this phase, we just design the generic Structure class on which everything else will depend, and the infrastructure of the LDE itself.

At the end of this phase, we could write unit tests of the whole Structure class and its LDE context, thus guaranteeing that all later phases rest on a good foundation.

## The Structure module

That module defines a single `Structure` class, whose instances have these
methods.

### Computed attributes

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * `S.setComputedAttribute(key,value)` caches a computed value under a
   certain key
    * One important example of a computed attribute:
    * `S.setComputedAttribute("feedback",obj)` tells the UI the type of
      feedback it should show for structure S, with obj having these keys:
        * result: a string, either "valid" or "invalid" or "indeterminate"
        * message: a string, the message should be shown on hover of the
          feedback indicator
        * section: (optional) which character (or range of characters) are
          the specific ones on which the feedback focuses.
            * For instance, if something doesn't parse, you might want to
              point out where it failed.
            * Or if an expression parses into many steps of work, each of
              which gets validated separately, then the feedback needs to
              be localized.
 * `S.getComputedAttribute(key)` fetches the computed attribute value, or
   returns undefined if it's not stored
 * `S.clearComputedAttributes(key1,key2,...)` removes the computed values;
   calling it with no arguments removes all computed values
 * `S.compute(key1,key2,...)` runs whatever function is necessary to
   compute and store the attributes for the keys.
    * It should usually be obvious what this is from context, like if S has
      a function `S.meaning()` and we say `S.compute("meaning")` that means
      run `S.setComputedAttribute("meaning",S.meaning())`.
    * In fact, the base implementation in the structure class does exactly
      what is described in the previous bullet point; `S.compute(k)` runs
      `S[k]()` and stores the result.  To pass parameters, instead of a
      string key, pass an array `[key,arg1,arg2,...]`.
    * But more complex examples are possible, and each structure type is in
      charge of implementing `compute()` in the appropriate way.

### External attributes

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

Just as computed attributes are a key-value dictionary, so are external
attributes.  However, we keep them separate because computed attributes are
those created by the LDE itself, internally, as the result fo some
computation on the structure, but external attributes are provided by the
client of this module, and are not altered by the LDE.

Thus we have the same three functions for manipulating the key-value
dictionary (get/set/clear) but no corresponding `compute` function.

 * `S.setExternalAttribute(key,value)` stores a value under a given key.
 * `S.getExternalAttribute(key)` fetches the attribute value, or returns
   undefined if it's not stored.
 * `S.clearExternalAttributes(key1,key2,...)` removes the stored values;
   calling it with no arguments removes all stored values.

### Manipulating the structure hierarchy

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * `new Structure(arg1,arg2,...)` creates a structure with the given list of
   child structures.
 * `S.children()` yields an ordered array of structures immediately
   inside S
 * `S.parent()` yields the parent structure of S, or undefined if S is
   the LDE Document root
 * `S.indexInParent()` gives the index of S in its parent's children array.
 * `S.insertChild(child,index)` inserts a new child at the given index,
   removing it from its old parent, if there was one.
 * `S.removeChild(index)` does the reverse.
 * `S.removeFromParent()` calls `P.removeChild(index)` in the parent of S,
   passing `S.indexInParent()`.
 * `S.replaceWith(other)` replaces S, where it sits in the hierarchy, with
   a different structure, thus leaving S with no parent.

### Event handling in the structure hierarchy

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

Each of the following functions will be called by the functions above, when
the event is complete.  There is no default implementation of each of these
functions, which means that no call will take place.  However, any instance
or subclass may choose to implement one or more of these functions as event
handlers, and thus hear about the events they signal.

 * `S.wasInserted()` will be called in any structure inserted into any
   parent structure, including just-constructed structures being inserted
   into a parent for the first time.  It is called after the insertion, so
   `S.parent()` will yield a valid `Structure` instance.
 * `S.wasRemoved(parent,index)` will be called immediately after S is
   removed from its previous parent (but obviously S has not yet been
   deleted from JavaScript memory).  The first parameter will be the former
   parent structure (which will still exist, because the removal juts
   happened) and the index that S formerly had within that parent.  Note
   that replacing one structure with another will yield a call to
   `S.wasRemoved()` in the one structure and `S.wasInserted()` in the other.
 * `S.wasChanged()` is a function that the UI will call in a structure if
   one of the structure's computd or external attributes changed.

### Unique IDs

Work done in this section:

 * [x] Code implemented
 * [x] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * The Structure class establishes a global mapping from unique Structure
   IDs to the instances that have those IDs.
 * Clients can assign or release IDs for structures using the instance
   methods `getID()` and `releaseID()`.
 * Clients can look up structures from IDs using
   `Structure.instanceWithId(id)`.

### Connections

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * Structures support two special external attribute keys, "connectionsOut"
   and "connectionsIn," each a multiset of targetID-connectionType pairs.
   Example such multiset (this particular one with no repeated entries):
   `[ [3,'reason'], [12,'premise'] ]`
 * We will want to keep these consistent across a given structure hierarchy.
   Consequently, we do two things.
    * We provide the function `S.fillOutConnections()` that can be called
      with `S` equal to the hierarchy's root, and it will ensure that a
      connection stored in the "connectionsOut" array of any node in the
      hierarchy is also stored in the "connectionsIn" array of its target,
      and vice versa.
    * We provide a convenience function for creating connections,
      `S.connectTo(T,type)`, that creates the connection by adding it to
      both the "out" list for `S` and the "in" list for `T`.
    * We provide a convenience function for deleting connections,
      `S.disconnectFrom(T,type)` that deletes the connection from both
      lists.
 * We also provide the following convenience functions that assume that the
   hierarchy's in and out connection lists are the same.  That assumption
   will be satisfied if no method of editing connection lists was ever used
   other than the convenience functions given above, or if such a method
   were used, then `fillOutConnections()` has been called on the hierarchy
   root since that time.
    * Get all connections of some type to/from `S` with
      `S.getConnectionsOut(type)` (or `In`).
    * Get all connections to/from `S` by omitting the type from the call in
      the previous bullet point.
    * Get all connections from `S` to `T` with `S.getConnectionsTo(T)`.
 * `S.properties()` looks at the set of other structures that connect to S
   via arrows, and forms a dictionary of name=value pairs, the "properties"
   of `S`.  The key will be the type of the connection and the value will be
   the array of structures that connected to this one with that connection
   type.

### Convenience constructions for unit testing

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * Create `S.attr(obj)` that will add as external attributes all key-value
   pairs in `obj`, returning `S` for use in hierarchy-building.
 * Append to the constructor code that traverses the tree and attempts to
   make connectionsOut attributes consistent with connectionsIn attributes,
   in a full tree traversal.
 * Enhance that tree traversal so that it finds attributes with common
   connection-type keys ("reason for", "premise for", etc.) and converts
   them into connectionsOut members before doing the consistency checking.
   E.g., `S.attr({"reason for":3})`.
 * Enhance that further so that the value associated with such a key can be
   a string from among a small set of relative references, such as
   "previous" and "next."  E.g., `S.attr({"reason for":"previous"})`.

### Accessibility

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * `S.isAccessibleTo(T)` returns true or false, implementing the
   accessibility relation defined earlier.
 * `S.findCited(n)` finds the first structure `T` accessible to `S` with
   name `n` in `T.attributes()`, or undefined if there is no such structure
   `T`.
 * `S.whatCitesMe()` finds all structures `T` in the scope of `S` with any
   citation-based key (such as "reason" or "premise") in `T.properties()`
   begin associated to the value `S.properties().name`.
 * There may be a need later to create other accessibility-related
   routines, such as `S.allAccessibleToMe()` or `S.myScope()` or
   `S.allAccessibleSatisfying(P)` etc.

### Miscellany

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * `S.text()` returns the contents of `S` as plain text.  The default
   implementation of this, for the base `Structure` class, is the empty
   string.  Subclasses may override this, but there is a guaranteed
   implementation in all `Structure`s that yields a string.

## LDE Module

### Global functions and data

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

 * Defines global functions for serializing and dezerializing Structure
   instances (or subclass instances) to/from JSON data.  The important half
   of this pair is deserialization, but to help with testing, it makes sense
   to also create a corresponding serializer.
 * Create a global Structure that is the LDE Document.  It will be a
   generic Structure, not a subclass.  It will have no children; they
   can be added later.  That is, it starts as a one-node tree, root only.

### Foreground/background

Work done in this section:

 * [ ] Code implemented
 * [ ] Unit tests written and passing
 * [ ] API documentation written

Specification:

If the LDE detects that it is being run in a background thread, it will set
up listeners for messages from the parent thread.  These listeners will
handle messages of three types:

 * Insert a new subtree.
    * The message must include the unique ID of the parent, the index at
      which the subtree will be inserted, and all the data defining the
      subtree (serialized in JSON form, as required for transmission to
      JavaScript background threads).
    * If the Structure (once it's deserialized) doesn't have an ID, give it
      a new, unique one as determined by the global mapping, and insert the
      new (id,instance) pair into that mapping
 * Delete an existing subtree.  The message must include the unique ID of
   the tree to delete.  Remove it from the global ID mapping as well and
   erase its ID attribute.
 * Replace a subtree with a new one.  The message must include the unique
   ID of the tree to replace and the data defining the replacement
   (serialized as just described).  Remove the replaced one from the global
   ID mapping as well and erase its ID attribute.

Even if it is not being run in a background thread (but perhaps was loaded
as a module in some command-line app, for instance) it will still expose
insert, delete, and replace functions as part of the module's API, each of
which operate on the global LDE document.

We will call any kind of insertion, removal, or replacement of subtrees of
the LDE Document a change event, whether it happened via a message from a
parent thread or as a function call to the LDE as a module in a larger app.
